---
title: Privacy Policy
date: "2019-05-29T00:00:00+01:00"
draft: false
share: false

# Optional header image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
---


<h2>1. An overview of data protection</h2>
<h3>General information</h3> <p>The following information will provide you with an easy to navigate overview of what will happen with your personal data when you visit our website. The term „personal data“ comprises all data that can be used to personally identify you. For detailed information about the subject matter of data protection, please consult our Data Protection Declaration, which we have included beneath this copy.</p>
<h3>Data recording on our website</h3> <p><strong>Who is the responsible party for the recording of data on this website (i.e. the „controller“)?</strong></p> <p>The data on this website is processed by the operator of the website, whose contact information is available under section „Information Required by Law“ on this website.</p> <p><strong>How do we record your data?</strong></p> <p>We collect your data as a result of your sharing of your data with us. This may, for instance be information you enter into our contact form.</p> <p>Our IT systems automatically record other data when you visit our website. This data comprises primarily technical information (e.g. web browser, operating system or time the site was accessed). This information is recorded automatically when you access our website.</p> <p><strong>What are the purposes we use your data for?</strong></p> <p>A portion of the information is generated to guarantee the error free provision of the website. Other data may be used to analyse your user patterns.</p> <p><strong>What rights do you have as far as your information is concerned?</strong></p> <p>You have the right to receive information about the source, recipients and purposes of your archived personal data at any time without having to pay a fee for such disclosures. You also have the right to demand that your data are rectified, blocked or eradicated. Please do not hesitate to contact us at any time under the address disclosed in section „Information Required by Law“ on this website if you have questions about this or any other data protection related issues. You also have the right to log a complaint with the competent supervising agency.</p> <p>Moreover, under certain circumstances, you have the right to demand the restriction of the processing of your personal data. For details, please consult the Data Protection Declaration under section „Right to Restriction of Data Processing.“</p>
<h3>Analysis tools and tools provided by third parties</h3> <p>There is a possibility that your browsing patterns will be statistically analysed when your visit our website. Such analyses are performed primarily with cookies and with what we refer to as analysis programmes. As a rule, the analyses of your browsing patterns are conducted anonymously; i.e. the browsing patterns cannot be traced back to you.</p> <p>You have the option to object to such analyses or you can prevent their performance by not using certain tools. For detailed information about the tools and about your options to object, please consult our Data Protection Declaration below.</p>
<h2>2. General information and mandatory information</h2>
<h3>Data protection</h3> <p>The operators of this website and its pages take the protection of your personal data very seriously. Hence, we handle your personal data as confidential information and in compliance with the statutory data protection regulations and this Data Protection Declaration.</p> <p>Whenever you use this website, a variety of personal information will be collected. Personal data comprises data that can be used to personally identify you. This Data Protection Declaration explains which data we collect as well as the purposes we use this data for. It also explains how, and for which purpose the information is collected.</p> <p>We herewith advise you that the transmission of data via the Internet (i.e. through e-mail communications) may be prone to security gaps. It is not possible to completely protect data against third party access.</p>
<h3>Information about the responsible party (referred to as the „controller“ in the GDPR)</h3> <p>The data processing controller on this website is:</p> <p>Michael Rustler<br />
Peitzer Weg 51<br />
12527 Berlin</p>

<p>Phone: +493098322284<br />
E-mail: info@mrustl.de</p>
 <p>The controller is the natural person or legal entity that single-handedly or jointly with others makes decisions as to the purposes of and resources for the processing of personal data (e.g. names, e-mail addresses, etc.).</p>
<h3>Revocation of your consent to the processing of data</h3> <p>A wide range of data processing transactions are possible only subject to your express consent. You can also revoke at any time any consent you have already given us. To do so, all you are required to do is sent us an informal notification via e-mail. This shall be without prejudice to the lawfulness of any data collection that occurred prior to your revocation.</p>
<h3>Right to object to the collection of data in special cases; right to object to direct advertising (Art. 21 GDPR)</h3> <p><strong>In the event that data are processed on the basis of Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. e or f GDPR, you have the right to at any time object to the processing of your personal data based on grounds arising from your unique situation. This also applies to any profiling based on these provisions. To determine the legal basis, on which any processing of data is based, please consult this Data Protection Declaration. If you log an objection, we will no longer process your affected personal data, unless we are in a position to present compelling protection worthy grounds for the processing of your data, that outweigh your interests, rights and freedoms or if the purpose of the processing is the claiming, exercising or defence of legal entitlements (objection pursuant to Art. 21 Sect. 1 GDPR).</strong></p> <p><strong>If your personal data is being processed in order to engage in direct advertising, you have the right to at any time object to the processing of your affected personal data for the purposes of such advertising. This also applies to profiling to the extent that it is affiliated with such direct advertising. If you object, your personal data will subsequently no longer be used for direct advertising purposes (objection pursuant to Art. 21 Sect. 2 GDPR).</strong></p>
<h3>Right to log a complaint with the competent supervisory agency</h3> <p>In the event of violations of the GDPR, data subjects are entitled to log a complaint with a supervisory agency, in particular in the member state where they usually maintain their domicile, place of work or at the place where the alleged violation occurred. The right to log a complaint is in effect regardless of any other administrative or court proceedings available as legal recourses.</p>
<h3>Right to data portability</h3> <p>You have the right to demand that we hand over any data we automatically process on the basis of your consent or in order to fulfil a contract be handed over to you or a third party in a commonly used, machine readable format. If you should demand the direct transfer of the data to another controller, this will be done only if it is technically feasible.</p>
<h3>SSL and/or TLS encryption</h3> <p>For security reasons and to protect the transmission of confidential content, such as purchase orders or inquiries you submit to us as the website operator, this website uses either an SSL or a TLS encryption programme. You can recognise an encrypted connection by checking whether the address line of the browser switches from „http://“ to „https://“ and also by the appearance of the lock icon in the browser line.</p> <p>If the SSL or TLS encryption is activated, data you transmit to us cannot be read by third parties.</p>
<h3>Information about, blockage, rectification and eradication of data</h3> <p>Within the scope of the applicable statutory provisions, you have the right to at any time demand information about your archived personal data, their source and recipients as well as the purpose of the processing of your data. You may also have a right to have your data rectified, blocked or eradicated. If you have questions about this subject matter or any other questions about personal data, please do not hesitate to contact us at any time at the address provided in section „Information Required by Law.“</p>
<h3>Right to demand processing restrictions</h3> <p>You have the right to demand the imposition of restrictions as far as the processing of your personal data is concerned. To do so, you may contact us at any time at the address provided in section „Information Required by Law.“ The right to demand restriction of processing applies in the following cases:</p> <ul> <li>In the event that you should dispute the correctness of your data archived by us, we will usually need some time to verify this claim. During the time that this investigation is ongoing, you have the right to demand that we restrict the processing of your personal data.</li> <li>If the processing of your personal data was/is conducted in an unlawful manner, you have the option to demand the restriction of the processing of your data in lieu of demanding the eradication of this data.</li> <li>If we do not need your personal data any longer and you need it to exercise, defend or claim legal entitlements, you have the right to demand the restriction of the processing of your personal data instead of its eradication.</li> <li>If you have raised an objection pursuant to Art. 21 Sect. 1 GDPR, your rights and our rights will have to be weighed against each other. As long as it has not been determined whose interests prevail, you have the right to demand a restriction of the processing of your personal data.</li> </ul> <p>If you have restricted the processing of your personal data, these data – with the exception of their archiving – may be processed only subject to your consent or to claim, exercise or defend legal entitlements or to protect the rights of other natural persons or legal entities or for important public interest reasons cited by the European Union or a member state of the EU.</p>
<h3>Rejection of unsolicited e-mails</h3> <p>We herewith object to the use of contact information published in conjunction with the mandatory information to be provided in section „Information Required by Law“ to send us promotional and information material that we have not expressly requested. The operators of this website and its pages reserve the express right to take legal action in the event of the unsolicited sending of promotional information, for instance via SPAM messages.</p>
<h2>3. Recording of data on our website</h2>
<h3>Cookies</h3> <p>In some instances, our website and its pages use so-called cookies. Cookies do not cause any damage to your computer and do not contain viruses. The purpose of cookies is to make our website more user friendly, effective and more secure. Cookies are small text files that are placed on your computer and stored by your browser.</p> <p>Most of the cookies we use are so-called „session cookies.“ They are automatically deleted after your leave our site. Other cookies will remain archived on your device until you delete them. These cookies enable us to recognise your browser the next time you visit our website.</p> <p>You can adjust the settings of your browser to make sure that you are notified every time cookies are placed and to enable you to accept cookies only in specific cases or to exclude the acceptance of cookies for specific situations or in general and to activate the automatic deletion of cookies when you close your browser. If you deactivate cookies, the functions of this website may be limited.</p> <p>Cookies that are required for the performance of the electronic communications transaction or to provide certain functions you want to use (e.g. the shopping cart function), are stored on the basis of Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR. The website operator has a legitimate interest in storing cookies to ensure the technically error free and optimised provision of the operator’s services. If other cookies (e.g. cookies for the analysis of your browsing patterns) should be stored, they are addressed separately in this Data Protection Declaration.</p>
<h3>Server log files</h3> <p>The provider of this website and its pages automatically collects and stores information in so-called server log files, which your browser communicates to us automatically. The information comprises:</p> <ul> <li>The type and version of browser used</li> <li>The used operating system</li> <li>Referrer URL</li> <li>The hostname of the accessing computer</li> <li>The time of the server inquiry</li> <li>The IP address</li> </ul> <p>This data is not merged with other data sources.</p> <p>This data is recorded on the basis of Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR. The operator of the website has a legitimate interest in the technically error free depiction and the optimization of the operator’s website. In order to achieve this, server log files must be recorded.</p>
<h3>Contact form</h3> <p>If you submit inquiries to us via our contact form, the information provided in the contact form as well as any contact information provided therein will be stored by us in order to handle your inquiry and in the event that we have further questions. We will not share this information without your consent.</p> <p>Hence, the processing of the data entered into the contact form occurs exclusively based on your consent (Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. a GDPR). You have the right to revoke at any time any consent you have already given us. To do so, all you are required to do is sent us an informal notification via e-mail. This shall be without prejudice to the lawfulness of any data collection that occurred prior to your revocation.</p> <p>The information you have entered into the contact form shall remain with us until you ask us to eradicate the data, revoke your consent to the archiving of data or if the purpose for which the information is being archived no longer exists (e.g. after we have concluded our response to your inquiry). This shall be without prejudice to any mandatory legal provisions – in particular retention periods.</p>
<h3>Request by e-mail, telephone or fax</h3> <p>If you contact us by e-mail, telephone or fax, your request, including all resulting personal data (name, request) will be stored and processed by us for the purpose of processing your request. We do not pass these data on without your consent.</p> <p>The processing of these data is based on Art. 6 para. 1 lit. b GDPR, if your request is related to the execution of a contract or if it is necessary to carry out pre-contractual measures. In all other cases, the processing is based on your consent (Article 6 (1) a GDPR) and/or on our legitimate interests (Article 6 (1) (f) GDPR), since we have a legitimate interest in the effective processing of requests addressed to us.</p> <p>The data sent by you to us via contact requests remain with us until you request us to delete, revoke your consent to the storage or the purpose for the data storage lapses (e.g. after completion of your request). Mandatory statutory provisions - in particular statutory retention periods - remain unaffected.</p>
<h3>Processing of data (customer and contract data)</h3> <p>We collect, process and use personal data only to the extent necessary for the establishment, content organization or change of the legal relationship (data inventory). These actions are taken on the basis of Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. b GDPR, which permits the processing of data for the fulfilment of a contract or pre-contractual actions. We collect, process and use personal data concerning the use of our website (usage data) only to the extent that this is necessary to make it possible for users to utilize the services and to bill for them.</p> <p>The collected customer data shall be eradicated upon completion of the order or the termination of the business relationship. This shall be without prejudice to any statutory retention mandates.</p>
<h3>Data transfer upon closing of contracts for services and digital content</h3> <p>We share personal data with third parties only if this is necessary in conjunction with the handling of the contract; for instance, with the financial institution tasked with the processing of payments.</p> <p>Any further transfer of data shall not occur or shall only occur if you have expressly consented to the transfer. Any sharing of your data with third parties in the absence of your express consent, for instance for advertising purposes, shall not occur.</p> <p>The basis for the processing of data is Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. b GDPR, which permits the processing of data for the fulfilment of a contract or for pre-contractual actions.</p>
<h2>4. Social media</h2>
<h3>Facebook plug-ins (Like & Share button)</h3> <p>We have integrated plug-ins of the social network Facebook, provided by Facebook Inc., 1 Hacker Way, Menlo Park, California 94025, USA, on our website. You will be able to recognise Facebook plug-ins by the Facebook logo or the „Like“ button on our website. An overview of the Facebook plug-ins is available under the following link: <a href="https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/</a>.</p> <p>Whenever you visit our website and its pages, the plug-in will establish a direct connection between your browser and the Facebook server. As a result, Facebook will receive the information that you have visited our website with your plug-in. However, if you click the Facebook „Like“ button while you are logged into your Facebook account, you can link the content of our website and its pages with your Facebook profile. As a result, Facebook will be able to allocate the visit to our website and its pages to your Facebook user account. We have to point out, that we as the provider of the website do not have any knowledge of the transferred data and its use by Facebook. For more detailed information, please consult the Data Privacy Declaration of Facebook at: <a href="https://www.facebook.com/privacy/explanation" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://www.facebook.com/privacy/explanation</a>.</p> <p>If you do not want Facebook to be able to allocate your visit to our website and its pages to your Facebook user account, please log out of your Facebook account while you are on our website.</p> <p>The use of the Facebook plug-in is based on Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR. The operator of the website has a legitimate interest in being as visible as possible on social media.</p>
<h3>Twitter plug-in</h3> <p>We have integrated functions of the social media platform Twitter into our website. These functions are provided by Twitter Inc., 1355 Market Street, Suite 900, San Francisco, CA 94103, USA. While you use Twitter and the „Re-Tweet“ function, websites you visit are linked to your Twitter account and disclosed to other users. During this process, data are transferred to Twitter as well. We must point out, that we, the providers of the website and its pages do not know anything about the content of the data transferred and the use of this information by Twitter. For more details, please consult Twitter’s Data Privacy Declaration at: <a href="https://twitter.com/en/privacy" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://twitter.com/en/privacy</a>.</p> <p>The use of Twitter plug-ins is based on Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR. The operator of the website has a legitimate interest in being as visible as possible on social media.</p> <p>You have the option to reset your data protection settings on Twitter under the account settings at <a href="https://twitter.com/account/settings" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://twitter.com/account/settings</a>.</p>
<h3>LinkedIn plug-in</h3> <p>Our website uses functions of the LinkedIn network. The provider is LinkedIn Corporation, 2029 Stierlin Court, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA.</p> <p>Any time you access one of our sites that contains functions of LinkedIn, a connection to LinkedIn’s servers is established. LinkedIn is notified that you have visited our websites with your IP address. If you click on LinkedIn’s „Recommend“ button and are logged into your LinkedIn account at the time, LinkedIn will be in a position to allocate your visit to our website to your user account. We have to point out that we as the provider of the websites do not have any knowledge of the content of the transferred data and its use by LinkedIn.</p> <p>The use of the LinkedIn plug-in is based on Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR. The operator of the website has a legitimate interest in being as visible as possible on social media.</p> <p>For further information on this subject, please consult LinkedIn’s Data Privacy Declaration at: <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/legal/privacy-policy" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://www.linkedin.com/legal/privacy-policy</a>.</p>
<h2>5. Analysis tools and advertising</h2>
<h3>Matomo (formerly called Piwik)</h3> <p>This website uses the open source web analysis service Matomo. Matomo uses so-called „cookies,“ which are text files that are stored on your computer and that make it possible to analyse your use of this website. In conjunction with this, the information about the use of this website generated by the cookie will be archived on our server. Prior to archiving, the IP address will first be anonymized.</p> <p>Matomo cookies will remain on your device until you delete them.</p> <p>The storage of Matomo cookies and the use of this analysis tool are based on Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR. The website operator has a legitimate interest in the analysis of user patterns, in order to optimize the operator’s web offerings and advertising.</p> <p>The information generated by cookies concerning the use of this website shall not be shared with any third parties. You may prevent the storage of cookies at any time by making pertinent changes to your browser software settings; however, we have to point out that in this case you may not be able to use all of the functions of this website to their fullest extent.</p> <p>If you do not consent to the storage and use of your data, you have the option to deactivate the storage and use of such data here. In this case, an opt out cookie will be placed in our browser, which prevent the storage of usage data by Matomo. If you delete your cookies, this will also result in the deletion of the Matomo opt out cookie. Hence, you will have to reactivate the opt out when you return to visit our website.</p> <p><em><strong><a style="color:#F00;" href="https://matomo.org/docs/privacy/" rel="nofollow" target="_blank" rel="noopener"><iframe style="border: 0; height: 200px; width: 600px;" src="https://matomo.datenhelden.com/index.php?module=CoreAdminHome&action=optOut&language=de&backgroundColor=&fontColor=&fontSize=&fontFamily="></iframe></a></strong></em></p>
<h2>6. Plug-ins and Tools</h2>
<h3>Google Web Fonts</h3> <p>To ensure that fonts used on this website are uniform, this website uses so-called Web Fonts provided by Google. When you access a page on our website, your browser will load the required web fonts into your browser cache to correctly display text and fonts.</p> <p>To do this, the browser you use will have to establish a connection with Google’s servers. As a result, Google will learn that your IP address was used to access our website. The use of Google Web Fonts is based on our interest in presenting our online content in a uniform and appealing way. According to Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR, this is a legitimate interest.</p> <p>If your browser should not support Web Fonts, a standard font installed on your computer will be used.</p> <p>For more information on Google Web Fonts, please follow this link: <a href="https://developers.google.com/fonts/faq" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://developers.google.com/fonts/faq</a> and consult Google’s Data Privacy Declaration under: <a href="https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en</a>.</p>
<h3>Font Awesome</h3> <p>To ensure that fonts used on this website are uniform, this website uses so-called Web Fonts provided by Fonticons, Inc.. When you access a page on our website, your browser will load the required web fonts into your browser cache to correctly display text and fonts.</p> <p>To do this, the browser you use will have to establish a connection with Fonticons, Inc.’s servers. As a result, Fonticons, Inc. will learn that your IP address was used to access our website. The use of Font Awesome is based on our interest in presenting our online content in a uniform and appealing way. According to Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR, this is a legitimate interest.</p> <p>If your browser should not support Web Fonts, a standard font installed on your computer will be used.</p> <p>For more information on Font Awesome, please follow this link: <a href="https://fontawesome.com/help" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://fontawesome.com/help</a> and consult Fonticons, Inc.’s Data Privacy Declaration under: <a href="https://fontawesome.com/privacy" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://fontawesome.com/privacy</a>.</p>
<h3>Google reCAPTCHA</h3> <p>We use „Google reCAPTCHA“ (hereinafter referred to as „reCAPTCHA“) on our websites. The provider is Google Ireland Limited („Google“), Gordon House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4, Ireland.</p> <p>The purpose of reCAPTCHA is to determine whether data entered on our websites (e.g. information entered into a contact form) is being provided by a human user or by an automated program. To determine this, reCAPTCHA analyses the behaviour of the website visitors based on a variety of parameters. This analysis is triggered automatically as soon as the website visitor enters the site. For this analysis, reCAPTCHA evaluates a variety of data (e.g. IP address, time the website visitor spent on the site or cursor movements initiated by the user). The data tracked during such analyses are forwarded to Google.</p> <p>reCAPTCHA analyses run entirely in the background. Website visitors are not alerted that an analysis is underway.</p> <p>The data is processed on the basis of Art. 6 Sect. 1 lit. f GDPR. It is in the website operators legitimate interest, to protect the operator’s web content against misuse by automated industrial espionage systems and against SPAM.</p> <p>For more information about Google reCAPTCHA and to review the Data Privacy Declaration of Google, please follow these links: <a href="https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en</a> and <a href="https://www.google.com/recaptcha/intro/android.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://www.google.com/recaptcha/intro/android.html</a>.</p>

<h3>Our social media appearances</h3> <h4>Data processing through social networks</h4> <p>We maintain publicly available profiles in social networks. The individual social networks we use can be found below.</p> <p>Social networks such as Facebook, Google+ etc. can generally analyse your user behaviour comprehensively if you visit their website or a website with integrated social media content (e.g. like buttons or banner ads). When you visit our social media pages, numerous data protection-relevant processing operations are triggered. In detail:</p> <p>If you are logged in to your social media account and visit our social media page, the operator of the social media portal can assign this visit to your user account. Under certain circumstances, your personal data may also be recorded if you are not logged in or do not have an account with the respective social media portal. In this case, this data is collected, for example, via cookies stored on your device or by recording your IP address.</p> <p>Using the data collected in this way, the operators of the social media portals can create user profiles in which their preferences and interests are stored. This way you can see interest-based advertising inside and outside of your social media presence. If you have an account with the social network, interest-based advertising can be displayed on any device you are logged in to or have logged in to.</p> <p>Please also note that we cannot retrace all processing operations on the social media portals. Depending on the provider, additional processing operations may therefore be carried out by the operators of the social media portals. Details can be found in the terms of use and privacy policy of the respective social media portals.</p> <p><strong>Legal basis</strong></p> <p>Our social media appearances should ensure the widest possible presence on the Internet. This is a legitimate interest within the meaning of Art. 6 (1) lit. f GDPR. The analysis processes initiated by the social networks may be based on divergent legal bases to be specified by the operators of the social networks (e.g. consent within the meaning of Art. 6 (1) (a) GDPR).</p> <p><strong>Responsibility and assertion of rights</strong></p> <p>If you visit one of our social media sites (e.g., Facebook), we, together with the operator of the social media platform, are responsible for the data processing operations triggered during this visit. You can in principle protect your rights (information, correction, deletion, limitation of processing, data portability and complaint) vis-à-vis us as well as vis-à-vis the operator of the respective social media portal (e.g. Facebook).</p> <p>Please note that despite the shared responsibility with the social media portal operators, we do not have full influence on the data processing operations of the social media portals. Our options are determined by the company policy of the respective provider.</p> <p><strong>Storage time</strong></p> <p>The data collected directly from us via the social media presence will be deleted from our systems as soon as the purpose for their storage lapses, you ask us to delete it, you revoke your consent to the storage or the purpose for the data storage lapses. Stored cookies remain on your device until you delete them. Mandatory statutory provisions - in particular, retention periods - remain unaffected.</p> <p>We have no control over the storage duration of your data that are stored by the social network operators for their own purposes. For details, please contact the social network operators directly (e.g. in their privacy policy, see below).</p> <h4>Individual social networks</h4>
<p><strong>Twitter</strong></p> <p>We use the short message service Twitter. The provider is Twitter Inc., 1355 Market Street, Suite 900, San Francisco, CA 94103, United States. Twitter is certified under the EU-US Privacy Shield.</p> <p><strong>You can customise your Twitter privacy settings in your user account. Click on the following link and log in:</strong> <a href="https://twitter.com/personalization" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://twitter.com/personalization</a>.</p> <p>For details, see the Twitter Privacy Policy: <a href="https://twitter.com/de/privacy" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://twitter.com/privacy</a>.</p>

